README.md, before:

# ROUTE: Route Optimization Using Tunable Evolution

<p align="center">
  <img src="images/logo.png" alt="ROUTE Logo" width="300"/>
</p>

ROUTE is a lightweight and modular simulator designed to explore routing in wireless sensor networks (WSNs) using evolutionary and swarm algorithms.
It provides a C++ backend for fast simulation of energy, latency, and reliability metrics.

Researchers can quickly test and compare optimization algorithms like GA, PSO, TLBO, or plug in their own custom metaheuristics.

---

## 🚀 Features
- Modular design with a plug-and-play architecture that allows adding new optimization algorithms with minimal effort.  
- Configurable inputs through `.yaml` files for network topologies.
- Node configuration specifies position, initial energy, communication range, packet size, and transmission/receiving energy costs.  
- Visualization support, including convergence graphs and topology plots with matplotlib.  
- Research-ready, built for academic experiments, reproducibility, and easy extensions.  
---

## 🛠️ Build Instructions

### ✅ Prerequisites

Make sure the following dependencies are installed:

#### Fedora:
```bash
sudo dnf install eigen3-devel yaml-cpp-devel
```

#### Ubuntu:
```bash
sudo apt install libeigen3-dev libyaml-cpp-dev
```

---

### 🛠️ Build Using CMake (Recommended)

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
```

---
### 🧹 Clean Build Files
```bash
make clean
```

Or if using CMake:
```bash
rm -rf build/
```

---

## 📂 YAML Format Example (Topology Data)

```yaml
nodes:
  - id: 0
    pos: [0, 0]
    energy: 9999
    type: sink
  - id: 1
    pos: [-3, 4]
    energy: 87
    type: sensor
    range: 6.5
    packets: 9
    tx_depl: 0.3
    rx_depl: 0.02
  - id: 2
    pos: [5, -2]
    energy: 55
    type: sensor
    range: 4.2
    packets: 6
    tx_depl: 0.25
    rx_depl: 0.03
```

---

## 🧪 Usage

```bash
./ROUTE_linux network.yaml
```

- `network.yaml`: YAML file containing topology data for the sensors

---

## 📜 License 

This project is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---

## 👨‍🔬 Author

**Rhiddhi Prasad Das**  
Built for research in optimization and computing.

Commit message:

Added in info for TUI interface and scripting

README.md, after:

# ROUTE: Route Optimization Using Tunable Evolution

<p align="center">
  <img src="images/logo.png" alt="ROUTE Logo" width="300"/>
</p>

ROUTE is a lightweight and modular simulator designed to explore routing in wireless sensor networks (WSNs) using evolutionary and swarm algorithms.
It provides a C++ backend for fast simulation of energy, latency, and reliability metrics, along with a TUI (Text-based User Interface) for intuitive experiment setup, monitoring, and result visualization.

The simulator is specifically built to optimize latency and energy consumption, enabling researchers to quickly test and compare optimization algorithms like GA, PSO, TLBO, or plug in their own custom metaheuristics.

Work is in progress to enable basic scripting support, allowing users to simulate and optimize workflows more flexibly.

---

## 🚀 Features
- Modular design with a plug-and-play architecture that allows adding new optimization algorithms with minimal effort.  
- Configurable inputs through `.yaml` files for network topologies.
- Node configuration specifies position, initial energy, communication range, packet size, and transmission/receiving energy costs.  
- Visualization support, including convergence graphs and topology plots with matplotlib.  
- Research-ready, built for academic experiments, reproducibility, and easy extensions.  
---

## 🛠️ Build Instructions

### ✅ Prerequisites

Make sure the following dependencies are installed:

#### Fedora:
```bash
sudo dnf install readline-devel yaml-cpp-devel
```

#### Ubuntu:
```bash
sudo apt install libreadline-dev libyaml-cpp-dev
```

---

### 🛠️ Build Using CMake (Recommended)

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
```

---
### 🧹 Clean Build Files
```bash
make clean
```

Or if using CMake:
```bash
rm -rf build/
```

---

## 📂 YAML Format Example (Topology Data)

```yaml
nodes:
  - id: 0
    pos: [0, 0]
    energy: 9999
    type: sink
  - id: 1
    pos: [-3, 4]
    energy: 87
    type: sensor
    range: 6.5
    packets: 9
    tx_depl: 0.3
    rx_depl: 0.02
  - id: 2
    pos: [5, -2]
    energy: 55
    type: sensor
    range: 4.2
    packets: 6
    tx_depl: 0.25
    rx_depl: 0.03
```

---

## 🧪 Usage

```bash
./ROUTE_linux network.yaml
```

- `network.yaml`: YAML file containing topology data for the sensors

---

## 📜 License 

This project is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---

## 👨‍🔬 Author

**Rhiddhi Prasad Das**  
Built for research in optimization and computing.
